# UIDAI_Analysis

## What is UIDAI?
The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) is a statutory authority established under the provisions of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (“Aadhaar Act 2016”) on 12 July 2016 by the Government of India, under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY).



UIDAI was created to issue Unique Identification numbers (UID), named as "Aadhaar", to all residents of India. The UID had to be (a) robust enough to eliminate duplicate and fake identities, and (b) verifiable and authenticable in an easy, cost-effective way. As on 31st October 2021, the Authority has issued 131.68 crore Aadhaar numbers to the residents of India.



Under the Aadhaar Act 2016, UIDAI is responsible for Aadhaar enrolment and authentication, including operation and management of all stages of Aadhaar life cycle, developing the policy, procedure, and system for issuing Aadhaar numbers to individuals and perform authentication and the security of identity information and authentication records of individuals.

##  What is Aadhaar?
Aadhaar number is a 12-digit random number issued by the UIDAI (“Authority”) to the residents of India after satisfying the verification process laid down by the Authority. Any individual, irrespective of age and gender, who is a resident of India, may voluntarily enrol to obtain Aadhaar number. 

## Objectives of the Project:
To analyze the Aadhar data using Hadoop to extract meaningful knowledge for the purpose of better decision-making by the central and state government.

The idea was to work on a huge dataset and carry out the following anaysis: 
- Number of Aadhaar Identities which are generated in each state. 
- Number of Aadhaar Identities which are generated by each Enrollment Agency. 
- Top 10 districts with maximum Aadhaar identities generated for both Male and Female.

The Dataset used is freely available on the government web portals.

## Proposed System 
The project and its system focuses on analyzing Aadhar related data using Hadoop for the purpose of better analysis and decision making by authorities. 
The steps for such an analysis are as follows:
- Data Set collection from web portal
- Load the Data in HDFS
- Data Processing and Data Preparation 
- Analyzing the Data:
  - Descriptive Statistics like Mean, Median, Standard Deviation
- Reports based on the data analysis and its projection onto charts and graphs


## Tools Used: 
- Hadoop
- Hive
- MapReduce
- Python
